# Wireless Sensor Networks

A wireless sensor network, is a distributed network consisting of sensors whose purpose will be to monitor an environment and its conditions.

Normally they consist of a very high number of nodes.

## Nodes

Usually low cost and low power

Monitoring one feature of the environment

With a radio that connects them to the outside world

The fact they are 
- small size - small battery
- low cost/energy - Low power CPU and low frequency
- ad-hoc deployment -> No maintenance or battery replacement

This type of network normally are randomly deployed in terms of location, therefore need to use nearest-neighbor communication.

The connection are wireless therefore are fragile and asymmetric

The small battery means a low lifetime, considering every operation the node does brings it closer to running out of energy.
Therefore we must try to conserve battery whenever we can.

## WSN

The network should be self configurable, allowing
- Topology changes
- Maintenance of connectivity
- Maintenance of coverage

We should be able to reprogram wirelessly without the need for onsite reprogramming.

## Data Collection

Centralized data connection is not recommended

Clustering can be used to minimize number of transmissions

Security and authenticity should be maintained, taking into consideration microprocessors can handle fancy encryption.

## Design challenges

Heterogeneity - In a WSN multiple types of devices can exist, that need to know how to collaborate with each other

Distributed Processing - While algorythms need to be centralized, processing should be distributed

Low Bandwidth connections - Data should be transferred effectively between nodes.

Large Scale Communication - Sensors need to be in communication with each other

Utilization of Sensors - Try to maximize performance over energy spent

Real Time Computation - Processing as fast as possible, considering new data is always being generated

# ZigBee

ZigBee is a type of WSN composed of 3 types of nodes

Coordinator
- Exists at least one per network
- Maintains network state
- Requires more resources

Router
- Forwards messages

End-Device
- May only produce data
- Can be asleep most of the time, checks messages when awakes